So let's go ahead and practice
using ElastiCache.
So we're going to get started
and then we're going to create a Redis-type
of ElastiCache, but you also have Memcached as an option.
So let's create a Redis cache
and we have multiple options here.
We can use a serverless offering,
which is to have a cache automatically scaling
to meet your application traffic
and no servers to manage.
It is way more expensive, but easier to manage.
Or we can design our own cache.
So we're going to design our own cache
because this is much easier
and better to understand for you to see
how you can architect and cache on AWS.
Alright, so from designing your own cache,
we have a different methods.
So we can restore from a backup, or we have easy create
to use recommended best practices configurations.
So for example, we have production type of configuration,
or dev/test, or demo.
And it depends on your needs of course,
or if you wanted to, you can configure everything
by having the cluster cache mode.
So here, we're going to want to configure everything
just to view all the options.
So the cluster mode is going to be disabled
where we have only a single shard
with one primary node and up to five read replica.
But if you want to have multiple shards
across multiple servers, then you would use cluster mode.
Alright, so we'll use it disabled.
Then this one is going to be called DemoCluster.
The location is going to be on AWS Cloud,
but you have the option to also run ElastiCache
on-premises using something called AWS Outpost.
Now, do we want multi-AZ or not?
This is very helpful for high availability
and fell over in case of a primary node fell over,
But for now, we disable it
because this will just incur more cost.
If we did, do we want auto fell over, yes or no?
We'll leave it as enabled.
Now, for cluster setting, you can specify
the engine version, the ports, the parameter groups,
and for node type, we're going
to use a micro type of instance.
And so we have t2 micro, t3 micro, and t4G micro
in this example, and I think t2 and t3 are in the free tier.
So use one of these.
Alright, so we have t2 micro,
and then we can have replicas, which is very helpful
when you have this kind of scaling for,
as we said, the cluster mode.
So we are going to just have it as zero right now,
just for cost purposes.
And this is, of course, when you have multi-AZ,
you should have more replicas.
So this makes sense.
So let's keep it as zero just for cost purposes.
Now, I'm going to create a subnet group.
So my first subnet group,
and this is going to indicate in ElastiCache,
which subnets we can run the cache in.
So we can choose the VPC,
and then automatically subnets are auto selected,
but we can specify them as well if you wanted to.
Now, for AZ placements, we can specify which replicas
can go to each AZ, but again,
we're not running into multi-AZ mode right now,
so it doesn't really matter.
Now, for next, do we want encryption at rest, yes or no?
In case that you want encryption at rest,
you need to specify a key.
And do you want encryption in transit to encrypt the data
between the clients and the server?
If you do enable encryption in transit,
then you get access control feature.
So to choose who can access your cache,
so we have Redis AUTH in which we specify a password
and AUTH token to connect to our Redis cluster,
or we can use an user group access control list.
And then you can create a user group right here
from the ElastiCache console.
So I'm going to disable encryption in transit.
And then you can also have a security groups
to manage which applications have access
to your cluster from a network perspective.
So in terms of backup, do we want backup, yes or no?
And then for maintenance, do we want maintenance windows
to actually perform minor versions upgrades?
Do we want to have logs such as slow logs
or engine logs that we can set into CloudWatch logs?
And finally, do we want to have tags?
So a lot of different options.
This is similar to RDS,
that's why I'm going a bit quicker over this.
But we've seen the different options to create our cache.
So then we can review everything
and then click on create to actually create our cache.
My ElastiCache database is now created
and I can click on it and if I had an application
that I wrote with some code,
I could actually use the primary endpoints
or if it was read replica, a reader endpoint
to allow to read from my cache, okay?
Now, there is no easy way for me to show you
how to connect to a Redis cache because it's not that easy
and you need to actually write some code
and it would be too complicated.
But from an AWS perspective, from this console,
you can see all the details as well as nodes,
metrics, logs, network security, and so on.
And it looks just like RDS because yes,
it is very similar service to RDS,
but it's intended for Redis and Memcached.
So the last thing you have to do is,
take this Redis cluster, action, and then delete.
And then do you wanna back up? No.
You just type the name of the cluster, delete,
and you're done with this hands-on.
Okay, that's it.
I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.